Date: ClinicalTrials.gov processed this data on October 25, 2016

URL: https://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00000158

Org Study Id: NEI-60

NCT ID: NCT00000158

Title: Macular Photocoagulation Study (MPS)

Summary: 
      To evaluate laser treatment of choroidal neovascularization (CNV) through randomized,
      controlled clinical trials. The Macular Photocoagulation Study (MPS) consisted of three sets
      of randomized, controlled clinical trials. Change in best-corrected visual acuity from
      baseline was the primary outcome for all MPS trials. Other measures of vision are evaluated
      in each set of trials. The purpose of each is described below.

      Argon Study: To determine whether argon blue-green laser photocoagulation of leaking
      abnormal blood vessels in choroidal neovascular membranes outside the fovea (200 to 2,500
      microns from the center of the foveal avascular zone [FAZ]) is of benefit in preventing or
      delaying loss of central vision in patients with age-related (senile) macular degeneration
      (AMD), presumed ocular histoplasmosis (POH), and idiopathic neovascular membranes (INVM). A
      separate trial was conducted for each of the three underlying conditions.

      Krypton Study: To determine whether krypton red laser photocoagulation of choroidal
      neovascular lesions with the posterior border 1 to 199 microns from the center of the FAZ is
      of benefit in preventing or delaying large losses of visual acuity in patients with AMD,
      POH, and INVM. A separate trial was conducted for each of the three underlying conditions.

      Foveal Study: To determine whether laser photocoagulation is of benefit in preventing or
      delaying further visual acuity loss in patients with new (never treated) or recurrent
      (previously treated with laser photocoagulation) choroidal neovascularization under the
      center of the FAZ. Two separate trials, one for each type of lesion, were carried out.
    

Description: 
      In each randomized trial conducted by the MPS Group, focal laser photocoagulation was
      compared to observation without treatment. Patients were assigned to laser treatment or to
      observation with equal probability. The first set of MPS randomized trials, the Argon Study,
      focused on the effectiveness of photocoagulation with argon blue-green laser in eyes with
      discrete extrafoveal choroidal neovascularization. The study investigators, who began
      recruiting patients in 1979, estimated that 550 patients with AMD and 750 with POH would be
      required. Follow-up was to continue for 5 years to determine whether argon laser
      photocoagulation treatment could prevent or delay visual acuity loss in these patients.

      After the initiation of the Argon Study, a new krypton red laser became available. The new
      wavelength offered theoretical advantages over the argon laser for treating CNV that
      extended inside the FAZ of the macula. The Krypton Study design was analogous to the Argon
      Study, with the investigation of three underlying conditions, except that CNV was closer to
      the FAZ center.

      The third set of MPS clinical trials, the Foveal Study, was designed to determine whether
      laser photocoagulation was effective for delaying or preventing further visual acuity loss
      in AMD patients who have subfoveal CNV. Among patients assigned to laser treatment in the
      Foveal Study, argon laser treatment was compared with krypton red laser treatment of these
      lesions. The investigators originally projected that about 350 patients would be required
      for each clinical trial of the Foveal Study.
    

Overall Status: Active, not recruiting

Start Date: February 1979

Phase: Phase 3

Gender: Both

Minimum Age: 18

Maximum Age: 0

Healthy Volunteers: No

Keywords: ['photocoagulation','argon blue-green laser','krypton red laser']